This week, I attempted to verify that our data can be described by a Poisson model.


Authors Alicia Johnson, Miles Ott, and Mine Dogucu state than a Poisson model is appropriate for a variable in which the number of independent events occur in a fixed amount 
of time/space, where \lambda is the average rate of occurrence.

From this, it can be concluded that a Poisson model has three basic conditions.  Each event occurs in a fixed space, each event is independent of each other, and the average rate 
of occurrence is known.

Applying this to the data, a run scored will be defined as an event.  Per the first condition, 
each run can only occur within the space of one nine-inning game.  However, the lengths of games in a given season can vary.  For example, if a baseball game is tied after the 
ninth inning, additional innings will be added until the tie is broken.  This violates the first condition of a Poisson model because the game is outside the fixed space of a 
9-inning game.  To remedy this, every game that lasted longer or shorter than 9 innings was removed from the data set.

The second condition of a Poisson model is that each event is independent of each other, which can be quite challenging to prove.  For this project, it would mean that one run 
being scored does not impact the probability of another run being scored.  For the model, it will be assumed that this is true.  However, in reality it may be the case that one 
run being scored motivates the team, which could raise the probability of another run being scored.

The third condition of a Poisson model is that the average rate of occurrence is known.  After removing every game not in our 9-inning period, the average number of runs scored in
a 9 inning game is 4.65 runs.

With all three conditions being met, it can be stated that a Poisson model would be appropriate to model the amount of runs scored by a team during the 2020 MLB season.
